---
layout: post
title: "Current State"
date: 2026-05-14
---

I’ve become even more isolationist in the last few months.

I had already moved myself out of the dopamine-frying abundance of Thailand
and into the quiet mountains of Vietnam.

I live in a building that has a bridge, with a big gate you can’t see over.

I had to tear myself away from a lifestyle I found empty. The dream they sell
you can satisfy a simpleton, but if you’ve got an ounce of deeper thinking in
you, you’ll become disappointed as well.

I find my online friendships deteriorating recently also. It’s not easy when
the platforms have gotten rid of connection and optimised for how many ads they
want to show you. I wanted to see what my friends were posting, but now it’s
random Americans screaming at the screen about some politician, or the 25th
remix of the same provocative caption regarding dating. I’m not an American and
I don’t care about dating dynamics.

Even my private DMs have become a news feed — the latest meme or something a
megalomaniac public figure did.

How does it help me? Who does it help?

I don’t blame anyone but the companies, though — it’s what they wanted.

I find the entrepreneurship content space to be shallow and performative. I
don’t want to see any more people flexing their houses or the fabric they put on
their skin that was probably made two hours from where I live for 5% of what
they paid for it. I don’t want to see the champagne bottle being opened in a
club full of uneducated “women” that didn’t have good fathers. Real business
happens in private, with no cameras. It’s silent work, done repeatedly. “That’s
not business — that’s consumerism” is something I could add there if I had used
ChatGPT to write this.

But I get it. It’s a tough spot to be in for anyone using these apps now —
whether you’re a creator or consumer, they’ve robbed you of a good experience,
and now we have a digital casino molesting our eyeballs the minute we wake up.

I hope I make good content that isn’t slop. It’s not packaged for the
algorithms, so it won’t be seen by many, and I refuse to pay these soulless
extractors money to push it out further.

I might sound pessimistic or negative, and I apologise for that, but this is
how I’m feeling and this is what I’m thinking.

And since I’m human and I don’t practice fake philosophies like stoicism, I
will continue to feel and I will continue to think.
