---
layout: post
title: Why The Blog?
---

I have a lot of experience growing accounts on social media platforms and I've been doing it for a while. As the years have gone on, I've noticed some pernicious patterns that are hard to ignore, but it was only a few days ago where I stumbled upon the term 'enshitification' that the whole thing clicked. 

See, I've been running up accounts on tiktok, facebook, instagram, youtube, linkedin and so on. If there's a social media platform out there- I've probably posted on it using accounts that my team is either contracted for or accounts that we own. As I've been doing this I've noticed the degradation of these platforms, which turns out, fits under the umbrella phenomena 'enshitification'... 

Here's the official definition:_ Enshittification" is the pattern where online platforms, apps, and services decline in quality over time. Coined by author Cory Doctorow, it describes a three-stage process: first, platforms are good to users; second, they abuse users to favor business customers; and finally, they exploit business customers to maximize profits for themselves._

Let's walk through it together; 
Do you remember how fun Facebook was when it first came out? You could post to your "wall" and all your friends would see it. You could add anyone all your friends and you could become very well known in your area if you so chose. You could play the farming game or the mafia game or whatever other game you wanted. You might get the odd poke now and again and maybe you didn't like the "1 like, 1 Prayer" posts, but at least you felt like you were hanging out in a cool online space. 

Then what happened? They introduced the feed, where little by little they took your attention away from all the things you enjoyed and pushed it towards outrage, towards disgust. They kept showing you things and wathcing how you watched them. Before you knew it, you were trapped in an emotional casino and all your friends'posts dissapeared into the void. 

On top of that, you started to see advertisements. It started as just one ad for something simple like a workout plan, then an iron curl then 10 iron curls, then 20 ads saying you're not good enough in some way. You couldn't quite put your finger on it, but you knew that this whole experience was much worse than before.

As I got older, I made some friends who were in E-commerce. They would be telling me about how expense facebook has become and how their accounts were getting banned with no explanation. I didn't pay much attention to it, but just how I, as a user and content creator was getting squeezed and abused, so were my business friends. 


How to Enshitify: 
Step 1: Make the app good for people 
Step 2: Make the app worse for people and better for businesses 
Step 3: Make the app worse for people and businesses to extract maximum value from all parties
Step 4: Die(?)



